Chapter 1 Start from Scratch (1)
    Start with a Feature
        You don't want to start with the UI you want to start with a feature.
        Even starting to build a flight searching you will need:
            A field for the departure city
            A field for the destination city
            A field for the departure date
            A field for the return date
            A button to perform the search

        Shoot you might not even need anything else.

    Detail Comes Later
        Don't get caught up on the small details typefaces etc. If you get caught up in the small stuff get away from the site and use paper and pen.

        Hold the Color
            Don't even worry about color right off the bat that can wait too. Using greyscale you force yourself to figure out the spacing and contrast. 

        Don't Over-Invest

    Don't Design too Much
        Try to figure out a feature and then work on the implementation if you do that you will not get caught in the weeds about how everything works and will not need to worry about edge cases off the bat.

        Work in Cycles
            First design then make it real. Work on it till there is no more bugs then work on the next feature, Repeat.

            Design -> Code
        
        Be a Pessimist
            Remember that you can add thing in small amounts so that you don't get caught in the weeds about a new feature. A comment section without files is better then one that doesn't exist yet. So make sure that you can start off with the smallest version of the feature that can ship and build from there.
    
    Choose A Personality
        Try to give each site a personality that way a banking website can feel safe and secure and a gaming site can feel fun and inviting.
        
        Font Choice
            Elegant: serif
            Playful: sans serif
            Plain: neutral sans serif

        Color
            Blue: safe
            Gold: expensive
            Pink: fun

        Border Radius
            Small: neutral
            Large: more playful
            None: very serious

        Language
            Less personal: more serious
            Friendlier: more casual

        Deciding What you Actually want
            If you can't figure out what you want you should try to look at other sites that you want to replicate and sites of the people you want to reach.

    Limit Your Choices
        A lot of choices might feel like a good thing but in the end they will paralyze you. Try to focus on the things that matter. That is why you want to start with greyscale and go from there. A small change is easier than a larger one.

        Define Systems in Advance
            IF you can you want to set a small amount of blues and other colors to choose from. Same goes for font size pick your favorite 5-10 and then change if you have an issue with one of them.

        Designing by Process of Elimination
            First figure out an idea for the best size or color of a design then try the slightly larger and smaller (or darker and lighter) if they look better then change if they are not as good reject the change. IF you end up changing then repeat the steps for the new size/color.

        Systematize Everything
            Going off the above you should have systems for:
                • Font size
                • Font weight
                • Line height
                • Color
                • Margin
                • Padding
                • Width
                • Height
                • Box shadows
                • Border radius
                • Border width
                • Opacity

            That way you will optimize the selection and not find yourself stuck in the weeds about a small design choice.

Chapter 2 Hierarchy is Everything (35)
    Not All Elements are Equal
        Visual Hierarchy refers to how important the elements in an interface appear. You don't want to have too many elements competing for your attention try to make the most important pieces the most visually striking.

        You can do a lot with a little making an element more striking can be down by simply making others less striking.

    Size isn't Everything
        Font weight can do a lot here, as you can leave the size almost the same and then make the font weigh more to compensate. Add to that you can use a less bold or softer color to achieve some of the same results.

        Try to stick to two or three colors:
            • A dark color for primary content (like the headline of an article)
            • A grey for secondary content (like the date an article was published)
            • A lighter grey for tertiary content (maybe the copyright notice in a footer)
        Similarly, two font weights are usually enough for UI work:
            • A normal font weight (400 or 500 depending on the font) for most text
            • A heavier font weight (600 or 700) for text you want to emphasize

        Also try to stay away from font weights that are less than 400 as it will make the words too hard to read.

    Don't use Grey Text on Colored Backgrounds
        This will only reduce the contrast. This will only work for white Backgrounds. What you are trying to do is make the text blend in and if you use a grey on color backgrounds you are in a sense making it stand out.

        You might think that using some opacity might do what you want there but it will show the background and that is not what you want.

    Emphasize by De-Emphasizing
        So for the example of the current page (from the top bar) being the active and a different color when on the page. instead of trying to make the color pop even more you can just make the others pop less.

        This even works for things that you might feel need an entire box or background you might just be able to get away with just letting the less important info sit right on the page.

    Labels are a Last Resort
        When presenting data you might feel the need to label more than needed. This can make the page more cluttered and less helpful. 

        You Might Not Need a Label at All
            YOu should be able to tell a phone number or an email apart. You should know that "Customer Support" is their job title.

        Combine Labels and Values
            There is a difference between:
                In stock: 12
                **12** left in stock

            They both tell the same info but one conveys more about it and give a sense of urgency. You might find that you want to put everything with a semicolon but "3 bedrooms" looks better.

        Labels are Secondary
            When you need a label mostly when you have a bunch of numbers that can mean different things you should make the label secondary.

        When to Emphasize a Label
            There might be times that the label is the more important thing. When you are trying to build a spec sheet the dimensions can be an item that a person will look for.

    Separate Visual Hierarchy from Document Hierarchy.
        When building a site h1, h2, h3 will be used to add in a heading for a part of the site. The higher the number the less important or font sizes you should be using. You can have more than 1 heading for a section of a site but you should reduce the size with each addition and then try to make the most important the first things people will see.

        Content should be the star not the label for the page itself.

    Balance Weight and Contrast
        The reason that bold feels emphasized is that it uses more pixels in the same space.

        Using Contrast to Compensate for Weight
            You will find as a corollary of the previous section is that icons will feel more bold than any text next to them you should then think about making the icons less bold by making the color not stand out as much as the text.

        Using Weight to Compensate for Contrast
            This can be used for the border of a cell as well you want to be sure that people will see the difference between entries but you don't want to draw attention to the border itself.

    Semantics are Secondary
        When designing these actions, it’s important to communicate their place in the hierarchy.
            • Primary actions should be obvious. Solid, high contrast background colors work great here.
            • Secondary actions should be clear but not prominent. Outline styles or lower contrast background colors are great options.
            • Tertiary actions should be discoverable but unobtrusive. Styling these actions like links is usually the best approach.

        Using the example you should be most drawn to publishing an add then edit then last the delete as that should be your last course of action. Most of the time you should focus on 2 different things and then have a tertiary action that blends into the background.

        Destructive Actions
            Red can mean a destructive action but if its not hte primary action for a page it shouldn't even have color. Think about this when building a page. However if you get to the point where you aer about to delete something the confirmation SHOULD have some weight to it.

Chapter 3 Layout and Spacing (65)
    Start with too Much White Space
        So for most cases the best way to start is to give everything too much white space.

        White Space Should be Removed not Added
            Add a little margin or padding to each element. Then you can remove or reduce the padding or margin if you don't like how it looks.

        Dense UIs have Their Place
            If you find that you are trying to build a dashboard where you want a lot of info in a small space you will want to have the margins gone or little as you want to be able to see everything all on the same page.

    Establish a Spacing Sizing System
        As with the other systems try and pick a few sizes and go from there. You shouldn't feel the need to over-analyze everything you are working on. 

        A Linear Scale Won't Work
            It is more about relative size than absolute values of items. 500 to 520 is about 4% but 12 to 16 is 33%. With this said any 2 size differences should be more than 25% or it will get lost.

        Defining Your System
            16px is a great starting place and from there you should work on building values that you can change to from there. Lower values should be packed together and larger should be further apart. Logarithmic is a good way to do this or just increase by 25% or more from each step.
        
        Using the System
            Once you have your system start to use it. Need more spacing grab a value and pop it in. 

    You Don't Have to Fill the Whole Screen
        Just because you have the space doesn't mean you have to fill it. Try to leave some space so that the user doesn't have to scan the entire screen to see everything. ~1200-1400px is a normal screen size now a days on a PC.

        Shrink the Canvas
            It might be best to start with the mobile version and scale from there. Most people will first view your page on a mobile device. ~400px is a good start.

        Thinking of Columns
            Try to start off with the idea of columns in your page. That way you can do more with less.

        Don't Force it
            Just like you shouldn’t worry about filling the whole screen, you shouldn’t try to cram everything into a small area unnecessarily either.
            If you need a lot of space, go for it! Just don’t feel obligated to fill it if you don’t have to.

    Grids are Overrated
        Grids can help you layout a dense or many option layout but they shouldn't always be used. 

        Not all Elements Should Be Fluid
            Some elements need to have a fixed width or height to best be used in a system. In the idea of a 12-column layout a side-bar will have 3 and the main will have 9 but if you flip the screen the side-bar will be too big or the other way it will be too small. Sometimes you should use absolute values to keep it consistent between screen sizes.

        Don't Shrink and Element Until you Need to
            Start off with the perfect size for the element and only shrink it when the screen size is less than the needed size. That way it will look go unless you have a smaller screen.

    Relative Sizing Doesn't Scale (92)
        You might be fooled into thinking that every part of a web page should be scaled to match the current font or page size. That is not however the bet case for every instance. If you base the size of the headline off the text and optimize the text for any screen size the headline could become to large or small. 

        As a general rule the larger the size of an element on a large screen needs to be shrunk by a larger amount on a smaller screen. 

        Relationships withing Elements
            Not everything even within an element needs to scale at the same rate. If you want a larger button padding can scale at a different rate than than the text size. 
    
    Avoid Ambiguous Spacing
        Borders will help to differentiate between items but if you don't want a border make sure that the spacing fits to differentiate the elements. Like a 20px between inputs and 10px between the title and the box. 

        DIfferences between the lines spacing of lines in a single bullet point and the spacing for the bullet points themselves.

        DIfferences between and icon and the associated info and an other icon.

Chapter 4 Designing Text (101)
    Establish a Type Scale
        Many websites will use almost every text size from 12px to 24px on the site somewhere this might feel like a good idea but in the end you are making a lot more work for little to no help.

        Choosing a Scale
            Make sure that you are not just trying for a linear scale when it comes to what font size to choose from. Especially when going from a large screen to a small screen

        Modular Scales
            Here are a few scales to look at:
                4:5 "Major third"
                2:3 "Perfect fifth"
                1:16.18 "Golden Ratio"
            You will use these rations at every step of the process so that you will start with 16px (a great starting point) then apply that ratio at every step.

            This might work for a lot of cases but it might give you weird steps that aren't integers and you will need more sizes at some point.

        Hand-Crafted Scales
            This is the system that we talked about earlier, this way you will have some values that are ready to go and will be able to build from there.

        Avoid em Units
            This is based off the current font size and when you are nesting elements you are now computing the em based off the size of the container.
    
    Use Good Fonts
        Picking the right font can be very important

        Play it Safe
            -apple-system, Segoe UI, Roboto, Noto Sans, Ubuntu, Cantarell, Helvetica Neue;

        Ignore Typefaces with less than Five Weight
            This isn't always a set rule but most of the time you will find that fonts with less than 5 weights built-in will have less time and energy put into them. YOu can search on google by number of styles. Keep in mind that bold and italics also count as styles so you might want to search based off of styles > 10.

        Optimize for Legibility
            Titles will want a lower x-height meaning that they will have smaller lowercase letters where in most of the text on the main body of the page will want higher x-height so that the eye can traverse the page without much eye movement.

        Trust the Wisdom of the Crowd
            You can also just search by popularity

        Steal From People that Care
            Look at your favorite sites and use their fonts.

        Developing Your Intuition
            Once you start to look at these things you will develop your own style and way of noticing what matters.

    Keep Your Line Length in Check
        You might just start off with the text line length set to something that fits and move on but if you want the best reading experience you want to set it to the length that you can read most easily. The best seems to be 45-75 characters in length, or a width of 20-35em.

        Dealing with Content
            Even when dealing with mixed media you should still want to limit the size of the readable text. The icons and media can go outside but you still want the reading experience to be the most legible.

    Baseline, not Center
        Baseline is the imaginary line that the text rests on. In this way you are making the font center around the center of mass and it will look better when you have more than 1 style or size of the font.
    
    Line-height is Proportional
        A line-height of 1.5 times the font size is a great place to start but there might be time where it doesn't work as well as you want.

        Accounting for Line Length
            We add space between a line so that when you eye goes to the front of the next line you will not get mixed up about where to start the next line, if you ever lost your place trying to find the next line it is because of the line-height.

            The smaller the text the larger you will need the line-height to be. As with a larger text you will be able to follow the text or the space to the next line.

    Not Every Link Needs a Color
        You want to make sure that the links pop while in a sea of text but if every thing on the page is a link you shouldn't try and make them a different color as it will distract from the overall look of the page.

        I might be beneficial to only make the links that will take a user on a normal path pop. If you want to denote a link still you can think about only changing the style or color or underline on hover.

    Align with Readability in Mind
        You should in a vast majority of the time align the text in the manner in which the reader will read the text. For most of the time you should align-left if you are writing in English

        Don't Center Long Form Text
            This goes with the line above but you want to have anything a person will read over a longer period of time be left centered as the eye will be able to read it more easily.

        Right Align numbers
            If you right align numbers and include the same decimal or trailing info you will have the larger numbers be larger than the smaller numbers and be more easily read.

        Hyphenate Justified Text
            This is simply any aligned text should have hyphens: auto; that way it will look better when you need to move on to a new line.
    
    Use Letter-Spacing Effectively
        See the systems.txt but the spacing of the letters can make a huge difference.

        Tightening Headlines
            There are fonts that naturally will have more open spacing for the letters as they are meant to be read at a smaller size. If you like the font and want to use it for a header you should think about changing the letter-spacing.

        Improving All-Caps Legibility
            When using lowercase letters you will find that a baseline align will be the best as you are going to have some letters above and below the align. Upper Case is not the same as it will have far less height differences. They will also tend to have less letter-spacing as their lowercase brethren. For this you might want to add in an extra letter-spacing. 

Chapter 5 Working with Color (137)
    Ditch Hex for HSL
        HSL stand for Hue, Saturation, and Lightness. This will help as once you set your color blue you can then just worry about lightness and saturation.

        Hue is a colors position on the color wheel where 0 is red 120 is green and 240 is blue. 

        Saturation is how colorful or vivid a color looks, 0% is grey and 100% is vibrant and intense.

        Lightness is the amount of light that it will produce. thus the color will pop more. This is also a % percentage.

        HSL vs HSB
            Brightness is different than lightness, you will get different results with either. 0% brightness will always be black, but you can only get white with 100% brightness and 0% saturation.

    You Need More Colors than you Think
        Don't just use color generators they will lead to different hues for the page but they might not look great.

        What you Actually Need
            Greys
                Text, Backgrounds, Panels, Form Controls. So in practice you should have 8-10 shades of grey.
            Primary Colors
                You might need 1 or 2 colors for the main look of the site, once you have those you should develop up to 8 variations of that color to choose from.
            Accent Colors
                Colors like yellow, pink or teal will grab the eye so you don't want them everywhere.
                There will need to be some things that demphasize an option. RED
                Or maybe yellow for a warning. YELLOW
                Green to show a positive

    Define Your Shades Up Front
        As with everything try to have those colors upfront so you can work from there.
        
        Choose the Base Color First
            Because you are determining the look of your site you want to build off the base color, this will set the tone of the page. 
        
        Find the Edges
            Once you have the base you will want to find the darkest and the lightest that will work on your page. 

        Fill in the Gaps
            Once you have the edges and the middle try to fill in the 8 differences that will work for the page, that way you will have things to pull from to build what you are looking for.

        What About Greys?
            Same as with the others but this time you will build from a more standard lib of colors.

        It's not a Science
            Don't get caught up too much trying to build the perfect colors its okay to change them if they don't work but not having anything and trying to build it all on the fly will hurt. It's better to start with Grey get the site up then work with the colors you want and then build from there.
        
    Don't let Lightness Kill Your Saturation.
        In the HSL color space, as a color gets closer to 0% or 100% lightness, the impact of saturation is weakened — the same saturation value at 50% lightness looks more colorful than it does at 90% lightness.

        This means that it will get more washed out the closer you get to 100% or 0% lightness. So increase saturation as needed.

        Use Perceived Brightness to your Advantage
            Once you are at 100% lightness you can't go anywhere, but you can if you choose the right color or put it up against a less bright color.

            There is a formula for how bright a color will look and its 
            sqrt(0.299r^2 + 0.587g^2 + 0.114b^2)/255

            What is nice about looking at the graph is that you will find local min/max as well as overall min/max so you can use closer values together if you want or go from 3 local focal points in your page. So if you want to use yellow as a bright spot you can go to red/orange or blue/purple for the less bright color.

        Changing Brightness by Rotating Hue
            So there is the option of changing the Hue to a more bright color. This will keep the intensity and the color you are looking for without washout.

    Greys Don't Have to be Grey
        Grey are supposed to have 0% saturation but if you add some in you will get more out of the color you choose.

        Color Temperature
            So you can get a "pure" grey with no hue and 0% Saturation but if you want you can keep the saturation very low and then add in some color, so long as the Saturation is very low it will feel Grey and be able to stand out.

            Blue will add some "Coolness" and yellow/orange will add some "warmth"

    Accessible Doesn't Have to Mean Ugly
        To make sure your designs are accessible, the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) recommend that normal text (under ~18px) has a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1, and that larger text has a contrast ratio of at least 3:1.

        So this is the contrast of the background to the text, in order to achieve the required contrast you might need to make the text or background too light or dark. This might washout the page and make it too dark or light sometimes you can just swap the text and background in order to achieve the same results and still maintain the text fidelity.

        Rotating the Hue
            Same it above but now working with colored text and colored background instead of adjusting the saturation of lightness you can rotate the Hue.

    Don't Rely on Color Alone
        You might want to add in some icons for colorblind people the same red/green colors will look like grey/grey to a colorblind person so adding in an up arrow or down arrow can be very helpful.

        What is nice is that it seems that as long as you can see a color you can see the differences between hues that are closely related so you can achieve the same things but with everyone being able to see the differences.

Chapter 6 Creating Depth (171)
    Emulate a Light Source
        How does a site make it look like an element is raised off the page.
    
        Light Comes From Above
            Light comes from above so things that are on the top of an item will have more light than things on the bottom of an element.

            The opposite goes for thins that are inset. Things on the bottom are going to have more light than the thins on the top of the element.

        Simulating Light in a User Interface
            First figure out a profile that you want the elements to have, then mimic the lights sources.

            Raised Elements
                For this we want the top to look lighter than the bottom. To do this we can add in a box-shadow of 1 px and then set the color to lighter than the button itself.
                box-shadow: inset 0 1px 0 hsl(224, 84%, 74%)

                Then you can add in some blending and box-shadow to the bottom of the element and make it darker than the rest of the button. Shadows should have pretty defined edges so don't get carried away with the blur.
                box-shadow: 0 1px 3px hsla(0, 0%, 0%, .2)

            Inset Elements
                So for the bottom you want more light and the top you want less. 
                box-shadow: 0 -2 0 hsla(0, 0%, 100%, .15)

                For the top you want to have less light.
                box-shadow: inset 0 2px 2px hsla(0, 0%, 0%, 0.1)

        Don't get carried away.
            Don't worry about photo realism it's not trying to mimic real life its trying to make it look nice and then move on.
    
        Use Shadows to Convey Elevation
            This is about trying to make an item look like its coming off the page, not simply raised, in an item the is off the page it will look more focused and not have any shadow on the top of it, it will also cast a shadow on the things below it. 

            Drop downs might be the perfect thing for this. As you want it to feel like it just came on top of the elements that are currently on the page.

        Establishing an Elevation System
            Just like with the other systems you want to set some values that you want and build from there. Smallest and largest are great starting points.
            box-shadow: 0 1px 3px hsla(0, 0%, .2);
            box-shadow: 0 4px 6px hsla(0, 0%, .2);
            box-shadow: 0 5px 15px hsla(0, 0%, .2);
            box-shadow: 0 10px 24px hsla(0, 0%, .2);
            box-shadow: 0 15px 35px hsla(0, 0%, .2);

        Combining Shadow with Interaction
            You might want to make a hover or a click make and item come off the page. This can be down with hover. Or on click. You can even remove the shadow thus making it feel like you pressed the button.

    Shadows can Have two Parts
        Sometimes you can use 2 shadows to make it look like you have direct light and ambient light. This is taking the idea that a real world item will usually have more than 1 light source and the more dominate light will cast a more defined shadow.
            box-shadow: 0 4px 6px hsla(0, 0%, .7), 0 5px 15px hsla(0, 0%, .1)

        The further away from a surface the less the ambient light will have an effect on the dull shadow as more of the ambient light shadow is lost as you are taking away more and more light. 

    Even Flat Designs can Have Depth
        Most people think that flat designs have no depth but you can still create depth with the colors you use.

        Creating Depth with Color
            Lighter colors will feel like they are raised above a color with less light.

        Using Solid Shadows
            An other way is to use solid shadows with no blur this will create the same effect but it will feel like its not a real world object.
            box-shadow: 0 3px 0 hsl(220, 7%, 83%);

    Overlap Items to Create Layers
        margin-bottom: -60px
        This way you will have the ability to make an item be on top of an other and create depth for your user.

        margin: -60px 0 -60px 0;
        You can also make an item taller and wider than the parent.

        margin-left: -24px 
        margin-right: -24px
        You can even overlap to the right and left and make buttons feel like they are going to move the actual image.

        You should also think about how an image might clash with the image below and thus you might want to add in a border.
        border: 4px solid #FFFFFF;

Chapter 7 Working with Images (199)
    Use Good Photos
        1. Higher a Professional Photographer
        2. Use High Quality stock Photos

    Text Needs Consistent Contrast
        One of the hardest things is taking a stock photo and trying to add text of the the top of it. There might be different brightness and colors that make a specific color blend in too much or make it harder to see the image below.

        The Problems with Background Images
            As said above you need to balance the colors of the text and image.

        Add an Overlay
            You might be able to simply add and overlay to the image like:
                background-color: hsla(0, 0%, .55)

        Lower the Image Contrast
            You could make the image lighter and contrast lower while also making the text darker.
                Brightness: +40%
                Contrast: -70%

        Colorize the Image  
            1. Lower the image contrast
            2. De-saturate the image
            3. Add a solid fill
                color: #035581
                Blending mode: Multiply

        Add a Text Shadow
            You might be able to add a very large blur radius and no offset to make the text stand out more.
                text-shadow: 0 0 50px hsla(0, 0%, 0%, .4)

    Everything has an Intended Size
        Things can look pixilated if you oversize or even undersize and image.

        Don't upscale Icons
            If you really don't have access to the proper sized image you should try to encase the icon in a larger circle or button so that the overall image is the right size.

        Don't Scale down Screenshots
            Use lots of space to show the image you don't want to share an image that is not at the right scale as you will make people think that it isn't as professional.

            The other option is to only show the specific area you are trying to show, so take the full size image and then crop to the area you want to showcase.

        Don't Scale Down Icons Either
            You still lose fidelity when you scale down as well its is not a one-to-one. If you want an image to scale down you might want to make the image most drastic and then scale down you will lose the little things while scaling down.
    
    Beware User-Uploaded Content
        You will never be able to control all the images that a user will upload, but there are things that you can do to make them look better.

        Control the Shape and Size
            Users might use portrait or landscape, they might crop the image or have 100's of different pixel sizes. To do this center the images inside a set size of frame and then setting the background-size to cover.
                background-size: cover;

        Prevent Background Bleed
            You could add in a box to surround and image but a subtle inner box shadow might be better.
                border: 2px solid hsl(212, 12%, 72%)
                box-shadow: inset 0 0 0 hsla(0, 0%, 0%, .1);

Chapter 8 Finishing Touches (219)
    Supercharge the Defaults
        Try to replace simple things with icons
        You can find the things that will make a feature more secure or make a user see the thing you want them to see.
        Promote what you want to see more than the things that don't matter as much.
        Links can be made to stand out more with shading or a different color.
        Custom checkboxes and radio buttons can help to make it stand out more,

    Add Color with Accent Borders
        Add a dash of flair with border color you don't need it to be a complete border think about just a small bit at the top or bottom. You can also just add a small border to the link of the page you are on.

        You can even add a border across the entire page at the top.
    
    Decorate your Backgrounds
        Even the best areas can be made better by adding in some background color

        Change the Background Color
            Use it to emphasize an item or make an other item deemphasized

        Use a Repeated Pattern
            This will help a user be able to use your page with ease and they will know what to do to find the thing that they are looking for.

        Add a Simple Shape or Illustration
            Small bits of shapes or lines will help to make the page feel less open and draw the eye to a place you want or keep the eye away from other places.

    Don't Overlook Empty States
        Remember that a user might not see every cool thing that you are developing. You should make an empty page just as awesome as a full page.

        There might be a reason to make the page not show everything that a user hasn't even done yet. IF you are offering a way to create discount codes maybe hide the scheduled or expired if no code have been created.

    Use Fewer Borders
        Only use them when it makes sense to do so.

        Use a Box Shadow
            IT will help to separate items but it really helps when trying to show what a user is currently on.

        Use Two Different Background Colors
            Its nice to have different background-color as it will help to show that you have different areas to look at. In this case the background might be white but the background for a text field might have a grey background.

    Add Extra Spacing
        margin-bottom and margin-top is a good use of space to make it so that you can show the differences while not always going to a border.

    Think Outside the Box
        Even a dropdown can be well made and look like a normal page. Even tables can have some flair, this isn't always the case with just pure info, but something like a few lines and columns can be made to have multiple lines and some flair.

Chapter 9 Leveling Up (249)
    Look For Decisions you Wouldn't have Made
        Try to look at pages with an eye for how it would have been built.

    Rebuild your Favorite Interfaces
        Once you do that you can then try to build something that you loved when you first saw it.